README.md - Gradebook

Sean Murthy, Steven Rollo   
Data Science & Systems Lab (DASSL), Western Connecticut State University (WCSU)

(C) 2017- DASSL. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.   
Licensed to others under CC 4.0 BY-SA-NC:   
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

PROVIDED AS IS. NO WARRANTIES EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.


## Overview

The procedure to import course schedule data is designed to copy course schedule and instructor
information maintained in external systems to Gradebook. It is designed to provide the
following features:
- Add instructors automatically to the database.
- Support multi-user import so that different administrators can simultaneously
import course schedules.
- Support importing schedules from different external systems: within the same
Gradebook installation, schedules from multiple external systems may be imported.

To support schedule-import from disparate external systems, the procedure is split
into three steps:
1. Prepare the database for import, which includes creating a temporary staging
table.
2. Copy the external data to the staging table.
3. Process data in the staging table and insert rows to (or update rows in)
appropriate tables.


## Implementation

The code in this directory implements this procedure to import CSV rosters
generated by the [Ellucian OpenClose](http://www.ellucian.com/student-information-system/)
system used at WCSU. However, the implementation could be customized to import
data in other formats or data from other systems.

The file `README.md` in directory `/tests/data` provides some information on
rosters generated by the Banner system. Directory `/tests/data/OpenClose` contains
some sample CSV schedules.

__Step1__: The script `prepareCourseScheduleImport.sql` implements the preparation step.
This script creates a temporary staging table named `CourseScheduleStaging`. It also
creates a temporary function `importCourseSchedule` that implements the process step
(Step 3).

__Step 2__: The `COPY` meta-command in [`psql`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/static/app-psql.html)
is used to copy the contents of a CSV schedule file to the staging table.

__Step 3__: The function `importCourseSchedule` is invoked to read the data in the
staging table, apply any necessary transformation, and add to or update the
tables `Gradebook.Term`, `Gradebook.Course`, `Gradebook.Section`, and
`Gradebook.Instructor`.

## Running the import procedure

The import procedure implemented can be executed on a Microsoft Windows
system by running the batch command `importCourseScheduleCSV.bat`. This command accepts
a few parameters and uses the `psql` client to run all three steps of the import procedure:

To execute the procedure, open a Command window and run the batch command as shown
below. The strings shown after the command name are parameters; strings
shown inside brackets are optional parameters.

`importCourseScheduleCSV.bat csvFilePath year season [dbUserName] [dbName] [server:port]`

The batch command accepts the following parameters:
- `csvFilePath`: The path to the file containing the CSV schedule data
- `year`: The year in which the schedule contains sections for
- `season`: The "order", name, or code of the season in which the schedule depicts, for example, 'Spring'. (See comments associated with the function `Gradebook.getSeason` for
details.)
- The remaining parameters are passed to `psql` after being formatted according
to that program's need. These parameters are self explanatory.

Depending on the directory from which the batch command is run, the directory
containing the batch command and/or the directory containing the executable
`psql.exe` may need to be in the executable path.
