README.md - Gradebook

Sean Murthy, Andrew Figueroa   
Data Science & Systems Lab (DASSL), Western Connecticut State University (WCSU)

(C) 2017- DASSL. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.   
Licensed to others under CC 4.0 BY-SA-NC:   
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

PROVIDED AS IS. NO WARRANTIES EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.

---

This file describes the contents of the sub-directories of the directory
`/tests/data`.

### Directory `Attendance`

This directory contains sample CSV-formatted attendance data, along with a
script for importing this data. It is required to import the sample data from
the other two sub-directories (`OpenClose` and `Roster`) before importing the
sample attendance data.

The data in the CSV files is structured in a manner that simplifies the import
procedure and the creation of additional test data. However, this structure is
likely to differ from common structures for attendance information. The current
structure was obtained by "un-pivoting" an existing set of sample data.

The import script, `importAttendance.psql`, is designed to import the three
files containing the sample data, but is not intended to import actual
attendance data.

The filename of each CSV file in `Attendance` encodes the year, season, course,
and section that the file's data corresponds to. Each filename corresponds with
sample data in the `Roster` directory.

Similar to the sample roster data, the content of the sample data is based off
of real attendance information, but have had all connections to real attendance
data removed. See the description of the `Roster` directory for more information
and warnings.

### Directory `OpenClose`

This directory contains the CSV-formatted files with details of sections offered
in different terms at WCSU since Fall 2004.

The files were generated by scraping the web pages generated by WCSU's installation
of the OpenClose system. Each filename encodes the year and season the sections
in that file correspond to.  

The sample files were created by Kyle Bella and Zach Boylan.

### Directory `InstructorEmail`

This directory contains scripts to add sample e-mail address to instructors who
don't already have one:

- The script `addEmailByInstructorID.sql` assigns e-mail addresses of the form
`n@example.edu`, where `n` is an instructor ID
- The script `addEmailByInstructorName.sql` assigns e-mail addresses of the
form `x@example.edu`, where `x` is a string composed of last name and first
initial, followed by middle initial or ID if necessary

Neither script guarantees all instructors get an e-mail address, but both
scripts guarantee that any assigned address is unique.

### Directory `Roster`

This directory contains sample CSV-formatted rosters ("test files") the way the [Elucian Banner](http://www.ellucian.com/student-information-system/) system generates at WCSU.

The column names, number, data types, and data sizes ("the structure") in the
test files are representative of rosters at WCSU.

Each filename encodes the year, season, course, and section that file's content
correspond to. However, the file content does not correspond to the sections the
filenames suggest.

The content of the rosters are based on real rosters, but they have been
scrubbed to remove all connections to real rosters. For example, names, IDs, and
e-mail addressed have been anonymized. Specifically, they contain hashes. The
content of all other columns are fabricated.

Again: **All data in this folder is for testing purposes only**. They do not
represent actual student data and thus no conclusion of any sort should be made
from them.

It is possible the structure of a roster at another university (even if they use the Banner system) is quite different. Specifically, anticipate that column name, number of columns, column order, and data size to be different. For example, the column name `WCSU EMail` is virtually guaranteed to be different at another university.
